============
Work Entries
============

The :guilabel:`Work Entries` dashboard, which can be found by going to :menuselection:`Payroll
--> Work Entries --> Work Entries`, provides a visual overview of the individual time sheets of
every employee, with each day split into a morning shift and an afternoon shift.

.. image:: work_entries/work-entries-overview.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Work Entries dashboard view showing all employee's work entries.

To change the view so that only the entries for a single day, week, or month are shown, click on
either :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, or :guilabel:`Month`.

.. image:: work_entries/work-entry-date.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Select the date format to view, either day, week, or month.

Use the arrow keys on the left and right side of the :guilabel:`Today` smart button to adjust the
displayed dates. The arrows will adjust the date based on the type of time selected. For example, if
month is selected, the arrows will move one month with each click of the arrow. If week or day is
selected, the time will move by either a week or a day for each click of the arrow, respectively.

Adding a new work entry
=======================

If a work entry is missing and needs to be added, such as  sick time or time off, click
:guilabel:`Add` to create a new work entry. A pop-up will appear, with several fields to fill in.

Enter the :guilabel:`Work Entry Name`, such as 'Sick Time' or any other short description. Select
the :guilabel:`Employee` and the :guilabel:`Work Entry Type` from the respective drop down lists.

.. image:: work_entries/create.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Create a new work entry by clicking Create and entering the information.

Next, enter the date and time for the work entry in the :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To`
drop-downs. First, select the date by navigating to the correct month and year using the arrow
icons, then click on the specific day.

.. image:: work_entries/date.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Select the date from the calendar using the drop down arrow.

Then, select the time by clicking on the clock icon, and using the up and down arrows for each
section to enter the hour, minute, and second for the time period.

.. image:: work_entries/time.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enter the time in hours, minutes, and seconds, using the arrows.

The :guilabel:`Period` will display the hours based off the :guilabel:`To` and :guilabel:`From`
entries.

.. tip::
   Before clicking either :guilabel:`Save & Close` or :guilabel:`Save & New`, it is good to double
   check the :guilabel:`Period` to ensure the time stated corresponds to the :guilabel:`To` and
   :guilabel:`From` fields.

   .. image:: work_entries/period.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Check the hours entered by looking at the total time in the Period section.

Once the information is entered, click :guilabel:`Save & Close` to save the entry and close the
pop-up, or :guilabel:`Save & New` to save the entry and create another :guilabel:`Work Entry Type`.

Regenerate work entries
=======================

After a work entry has been either added or modified, the work entries need to be regenerated for
the affected employee(s). Click on the :guilabel:`Regenerate Work Entries` smart button, and a
pop-up will appear.

   .. image:: work_entries/regenerate.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Regenrate work entires after modifying them.

Select the :guilabel:`Employee` to regenerate work entries from the drop-down menu, and adjust the
:guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To` fields so the correct date range is displayed. Click the
:guilabel:`Regenerate Work Entries` smart button and the work entries will be recreated. Once
finished, the pop-up will close.

   .. image:: work_entries/regenerate-details.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Regenerate a work entry for a particular employee.

Conflicts
=========

A conflict appears for any request that has not been approved, such as sick time or vacation, or if
there are any errors on the work entry, such as required fields being left blank. Conflicts are
required to be resolved before payslips can be generated.

Any work entry that has a conflict to be resolved is indicated on the main :guilabel:`Work Entry`
overview dashboard, or by going to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Work Entries --> Conflicts`, where
only conflicts needing resolution are shown.

.. image:: work_entries/conflicts.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Conflicts dashboard view showing all employee's conflicts in work entries.

Conflicts are indicated with an orange triangle in the top left corner of each individual entry.
Click on an individual work entry to see the conflict details in a pop-up.

The conflict is briefly explained in an orange text box.

.. image:: work_entries/conflict-detail.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Details for a conflict appear in the pop-up.

The :guilabel:`Work Entry Name`, :guilabel:`Employee`, and :guilabel:`Work Entry Type` are listed on
the left side of the pop-up. The :guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`To` date range, as well as the
total time requested (in hours), appear in the :guilabel:`Period` field on the right side.

If there is a conflict because a time-off request for the same time already exists in the system,
the time-off will be entered in the :guilabel:`Time Off` field. Clicking the :guilabel:`External
Link` button next to the :guilabel:`Time Off` entry will bring up the duplicate time off request.

The details for the time-off request appear in the pop-up. The request can be modified if needed.
Click either the :guilabel:`Approved` or :guilabel:`Refused` smart button to approve or deny the
request, then click the :guilabel:`Save` smart button to save the changes.

.. image:: work_entries/validate.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Edit and/or validate a duplicate time-off request.

Once the duplicate time-off request has been approved and saved, the screen goes back to the
conflict. Click :guilabel:`Refuse Time Off` or :guilabel:`Approve Time Off` via the smart buttons in
the top right to either approve or deny the request. Repeat for all conflicts until there are no
conflicts to resolve.

After conflicts have been resolved, work entries must be regenerated per each employee by clicking
the :guilabel:`Regenerate Work Entries` smart button, and entering the corresponding information for
each employee.

.. image:: work_entries/regenerate-employee.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Regenerate each employee who has had work entires modified.

Generating payslips
===================

To generate payslips, navigate to the time period the payslips should be generated for, either day,
week, or month. When the desired pay period is displayed, click the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips`
smart button.

   .. image:: work_entries/generate-payslips.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Create payslips by clicking the Generate Payslips smart button.

.. tip::
   If the :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` smart button is not active (appears light turquoise instead
   of dark turquoise) that indicates there are conflicts. *Solve conflicts first* will appear as a
   warning when :guilabel:`Generate Payslips` is moused over. Resolve all conflicts before
   generating payslips.

A batch entry will appear for the time period selected. The batch name appears at the top in the
:guilabel:`Name` field, typically listing the month and year for the particular batch.

The date range the payslips apply to appears in the *Period* field. The *Company* appears in the
company section, along with an option to mark the payslips as a credit note. To make changes, click
the :guilabel:`Edit` smart button in the top left, make any changes, then click either
:guilabel:`Save` to accept the changes or :guilabel:`Discard` to revert to the original data.

   .. image:: work_entries/batch.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Batch information that appears when making a batch.

Click the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` smart button to create the payslips for the batch.

Click on the :guilabel:`Payslips` smart button in the top right to view all the payslips for the
batch.

.. Note::
   Payslips will have a status of *Waiting* until the :guilabel:`Create Draft Entry` smart button
   has been clicked. After, the payslip status will change to *Done*.

Payslips can be printed by clicking the box next to each payslip to print, or clicking the box next
to :guilabel:`Reference` to select all the payslips at once. Click the :guilabel:`Print` smart
button, and a PDF file will be created with all the specified payslips.

   .. image:: work_entries/print-payslips.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Click the Print smart button to print the payslips.

